CV of [Martell Malone](https://martellmalone.com)
===============


Interests
---------

*   Creating advancements in technologies through opensource software
*   Entrepreneur with a proficiency in Low Level Software Development, Git, SCRUM. OpenSource Ninja


*   [Github](http://github.com/martell)     [Twitter](http://twitter.com/martellmalone)



Work Experience
---------------

*   **Lead Software Engineer** (Palo Alto, CA, USA)

    Kassen Company, October 2017 - Present

    -   A Lead Software Engineer on a Laboratory Information Management System.
    -   Responsible for creating, deploying and managing both features and changes for a live product that has a large-scale of active users.
    -   Full stack engineering, Devops and Administration.

*   **Chief Executive Officer** (Ireland)

    MalCon Ventures, Sept 2014 - Present

    -   Contracted to VideoLan spin off VideoLabs for VLC media player.
    -   Created a directx11 video output renderer for VLC from scratch.
    -   Adapted GNU Binutils and Clang so that we could build VLC for WinRT and WP8 without visual studio.
    -   Trained in creating media based apps using VLC as the driver for video and audio, across many platforms.

*   **Core Software Engineer** (Mountain View, CA, USA)

    Game Closure, December 2015 - October 2016

    -   Native stack development.
    -   Lead on Javascript to Native Game Engine.
    -   Mostly redacted for NDA reasons, might be updated in future.
    -   Company used said work to align their strategy to raise Series B.
    -   Ask the CEO for more details.

*   **Chief Technical Officer** (Ireland)

    Atom Split Games, March 2012 - May 2014

    -   Ported the cocos2d-x game engine to Windows Phone 8 and WinRT
    -   Produced a networked game across multiple platforms including
        Android, IOS, WP8, WinRT, Mac, Linux and Windows.
    -   Wrote a complete server including a Matchaking and leaderboard System.
    -   Ported OpenSSL, libcurl and libwebsockets to WP8
    -   Managed many scrum projects as scrum master and git repos as admin

*   **FreeLance Programmer**

    OpenSource Technologies, Sept 2011 - Present

    -   Author of the llvm and clang port of ming-w64. [link](http://github.com/martell/mingw-w64-clang)
    -   One for the lead developers / authors of the msys2 project. [link](http://msys2.github.io)
    -   Created a windows hosted PS3 cross compiler using gcc 4.8.2 and 4.9 resulting in newer and faster
        programs than that generated by official toolchains provided by Sony (report available on request)
    -   Utilised a package manager for opensource libraries for use with the PS3 compiler. [link](http://github.com/martell/PS3-PACKAGES)
    -   Ported many libraries to the PS3 lv2 such as zlib, libpng, SDL2 etc


*   **Programming Intern** (Limerick, Ireland)

    Open Emotion Studios, May 2011 - Sept 2011

    -   Worked on an Nintendo DS release title
    -   Created a full demo release on the PS3
    -   Worked on a full PSP release title

*   **HomeBrew Hobbiest**

    May 2002 - Sept 2010

    -   Created Many Homebrew games for fun on PC and the Playstation 2
    -   Created Many Emulators including chip8, Gameboy, Gamecube etc
    -   Learned about scrum management and dealing with patch based projects
    -   Learned how to program in c,c++,java,python,bash,javascript and more

Skills
------
*
    -   Experienced software engineer with over 14 years spent working with various high level stacks
    -   Low Level developer that has worked on GCC, LLVM and Clang
    -   Proficent Opensource Developer with many years of experience. [github](http://github.com/martell)
    -   Familiar with various nix shell tools and editors such as vi and of course the evil that is regular expressions

Education
---------

*   **Limerick Institute of Technology** (Munster Ireland)

    -   B.Sc (Honours) in Software Engineering and Games Design, May 2014
    -   B.Sc in Computing and Software Engineering, May 2013

Achievements
------
*
    -   Guest Speaker at UK Develop Conf in 2013 with over 1600 attendees
    -   Guest Speaker at Gaming Reimagined Ireland and GIG 2013
    -   Winner Of Microsoft's Direct X 11 Challenge 2012
    -   Runner Up of Microsoft's Direct X 11 Challenge 2011
